Generating value from Hadoop and
Pre-Built Hadoop Images that
come as off the shelf products.
Assembling your own software stack
from scratch can be messy and
a lot of work for beginners.
The task of setting up the whole stack
could consume a lot of project time and
man power, reducing time to deployment.
Getting pre-built images is similar
to buying pre-assembled furniture.
You can obtain a ready to go software
stack which contains a pre-installed
operating system, required libraries and
application software.
It saves you from the trouble
of putting the different
parts together in the right orientation.
You can start using
the furniture right away.
Packaging of these pre-built
software images is enabled
by virtual machines using
virtualization software.
Without going into too much detail,
one of the benefits of virtualization
software is that it lets you run a ready
made software stack within minutes.
Your software stack comes as a large file.
Virtualization software provides
a platform where your stack can run.
Many companies provide images for
their version of the Hadoop platform,
including a number of
tools of their choice.
Hortonworks is one of the companies that
provides a pre-built software stack for
both Mac and Windows platforms.
Cloudera is another company
that provides pre-installed and
assembled software stack images.
Cloudera image is what we will
be working with in this course.
Many other companies
provide similar images.
Additionally, lots of online tutorials for
beginners are on vendors websites for
self-training of users
working with these images and
the open source tools they include.
Once you choose the vendor,
you can check out their website for
tutorials on how to get started quickly.
There are plenty of resources online for
that.
You can deploy pre-built
images over the Cloud.
This would further accelerate your
application deployment process.
It is always best to evaluate which
approach is most cost effective for
your business model and organization.
Companies such as Cloudera,
Hortonworks and others,
provide step-by-step guides on how to
set up pre-built images on the Cloud.
As a summary, using pre-built software
packages have a number of benefits and
can significantly accelerate
your big data projects.
Even small teams can quickly prototype,
deploy and validate their project ideas.
The developed analytical solutions
can be scaled to larger volumes and
increase velocities of
data in a matter of hours.
These companies also provide
Enterprise level solutions for large,
full-fledged applications.
An added benefit is that there
are plenty of companies which provide
ready-made solutions.
That means lots of choices for you to
pick the one most suited to your project.